Document Publication Process (#14)
NewDayTechnology/API-Design: guidelines/Documentation.md

Our publication process requires two values:

- `pub-ready` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the `markdown` file is ready to be published. **true** will publish the content to the `production` environments, while **false** will publish it to the `UAT`.
- `external-use` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the content should be available on the **public** or **internal** portal.

For a publicly accessible API, your `markdown` doc should look like this:

```md
---
pub-ready: true
external-use: true
---
# Xyz API

The `Xyz` API is a...
```

### Adding Values to OpenAPI Specification

Include the following in the OpenAPI specification:

```JSON

> {"pub-ready": true

Reviewer: Can we correctly format this thanks

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: @davidwhitney we should fix the action to also work for PR from forks

Our publication process requires two values:

- `pub-ready` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the `markdown` file is ready to be published. **true** will publish the content to the `production` environments, while **false** will publish it to the `UAT`.
- `external-use` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the content should be available on the **public** or **internal** portal.

For a publicly accessible API, your `markdown` doc should look like this:

```md
---
pub-ready: true
external-use: true
---
# Xyz API

The `Xyz` API is a...
```

### Adding Values to OpenAPI Specification

Include the following in the OpenAPI specification:

```JSON

> {
>   "pub-ready": "true",
>   "external-use": "true"
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{
  [ ... ]
  "x-pub-settings": {
    "pub-ready": "true",
    "external-use": "true"
  }
  [ ... ]
}
```

Our publication process requires two values:

- `pub-ready` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the `markdown` file is ready to be published. **true** will publish the content to the `production` environments, while **false** will publish it to the `UAT`.
- `external-use` - This is a boolean value that indicates whether the content should be available on the **public** or **internal** portal.

For a publicly accessible API, your `markdown` doc should look like this:

```md
---
pub-ready: true
external-use: true
---
# Xyz API

The `Xyz` API is a...
```

### Adding Values to OpenAPI Specification

Include the following in the OpenAPI specification:

```JSON
{
  [ ... ]
  "x-pub-settings": {
    "pub-ready": "true",
    "external-use": "true"
  }
  [ ... ]
}
```

> - If `pub-ready` is set to **true**, the file is published to the production environment; whereas, **false** will publish it to the UAT environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If `pub-ready` is set to **true**, the file is published to the UAT and then production environment upon passing UAT. If **false** will publish it to the staging environment.
```

- If `external-use` is set to **true**, the file is published to the public Developer Portal; whereas, **false** will publish it to the internal portal.

The following image represents how the value settings determine the content visibility:

> ![Publication Settings](./Publication%20Settings.png)

Reviewer 2: Why not using a Markdown table instead of embedding a `png` that is then hard to change, especially if it is not generated with an included template?
